FOR EXTERNAL EXAMINER (date of this version: 12/4/2023)
1. As part of a national reporting scheme, every hospital in Scotland has been told
to provide information on patient admissions since 2010 and on an ongoing basis
into the future. You work at the reporting centre and have been tasked with
cleaning the data so it can be loaded into a database for diﬀerent analysis tasks.
Each hospital provides one CSV ﬁle per month; however, you notice that some
ﬁles are missing. You are also told that some data have been entered by hand.
Each ﬁle is supposed to contain the following variables:
• unique patient id e.g., ”03-05-92-0124”,
• hospital location code e.g., ”EDI004”,
• admission date, discharge date, and length of stay,
• admission type, which should be one of “Emergency”, “Elective”, or “Trans-
fer”,
• department code e.g.,”RAD”, ”ORTHO”, ”ENT”.
(a) The dataset is an example of Operational data which has not been gathered
for a speciﬁc analysis. Explain why it is vital to clean this data before it is
made available for analysis, and state two resources you could use to assist
with the cleaning.
[3 marks]
(b) Name the technique which could be applied to convert a categorical variable
for use by numerical models, and show how it would be applied to the
following data sample.
[2 marks]
Row
admission type
1
Emergency
2
Emergency
3
Transfer
(c) Create a plan for cleaning the dataset above, providing speciﬁc examples of
tasks at each step in the Data Cleaning workﬂow. You should assume that
HPC is not required for this task.
[12 marks]
(d) Brieﬂy describe how you could verify the following statement using the
cleaned data: “For each hospital, the average length of stay per year should
be much higher for transfers than any other admission type”.
[2 marks]
(e) A researcher wishes to train a Random Forest classiﬁer using the cleaned
data to predict future admission rates. Explain what the terms “bootstrap
aggregation” and “out of bag (OOB) error” mean in this context.
[2 marks]
(f) Describe an experiment you could perform to determine the optimal number
of trees to include in a Random Forest classiﬁer.
[4 marks]
Page 1 of 6
