3.
(a) In each of the below examples consider what could be an appropriate dis-
tribution for modelling the random variable X. Brieﬂy justify your answer
highlighting the key reasons.
i. X: The total number of functioning devices out of boxes of 50 devices
ii. X: The value, in thousand pounds, of two bedroom properties in Edin-
burgh.
iii. X: The daily number of complaints at the call centre of your energy
provider.
[3 marks]
(b) A big popular theatre in Edinburgh has asked your help to understand how
successful are the events they organise. More speciﬁcally, they want to know
whether an event will be sold-out or not. For this, you’re given a csv ﬁle
with three variables, namely, Y : showing the status of the event (i.e., if it
was sold out or not), X1 : the type of the event (i.e., if it was a theatrical
event or a music event) and X2 : whether it took place during the weekend
or not. After processing the data you bring them together in the below
format.
theatrical
music
event
event
sold-out
100
90
not sold out
50
20
week-day
weekend
sold out
80
110
not sold out
40
30
i. They plan to organise a music event on the last Thursday of May. Use
a Naive Bayes classiﬁer to answer whether it is going to be sold-out or
not. Show all your working using adequate notation.
[8 marks]
ii. For the ﬁrst time, they consider organising a drawing lesson during
June’s ﬁrst weekend and they want to know if it’s going to be sold out.
A. Can you answer this using the provided data and/or the trained
classiﬁer? If yes, show and explain how but without making the ac-
tual calculation. If not, explain why and suggest how you could ap-
proach it. In either case, mention anything that you would like/need
to communicate with them based on your approach.
[5 marks]
(c) In the process of training various supervised models, we’ve talked about
optimization methods such as gradient descent and stochastic gradient de-
scent.
i. In this context, what is the learning rate α?
[2 marks]
ii. Below you are given three plots of a cost function J(θ) against the num-
ber iterations performed by the gradient descent algorithm. Each plot,
concerns the same data, training model, same total number number of
Page 6 of 7
