2.
(a) Briefly explain both k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) and k-means, and state
the key difference between them.
[3 marks]
(b) In k-NN, Feature Scaling is important to ensure the model is not
dominated by features with larger values. Explain how Normalization and
Standardization each affect feature values. Justify which one is more
suited for a feature known to have outliers.
[4 marks]
(c) A test for a new bacterial infection has been created and evaluated on a
population of 1,000 people, of which 2.5% are known to have the virus
and the rest do not. The test has been determined to be successful on
91% of people who are infected, and correctly dismisses 89% of people
who do not have the condition.
Using Bayes’ Law, calculate the probability that a positive test result on
someone from this population means they are infected.
[4 marks]
(d) A board game caf´e wishes to determine which types of new game to buy
based on how popular its existing games are. They have collected data
from customers who have played their existing games:
Puzzle
Strategy
Card
Cooperative
Competitive
Y
34
76
65
47
75
N
23
12
56
157
23
In this table, row Y means the game is popular, and row N means it is not.
There are two features; Genre (Puzzle, Strategy, or Card), and Player
Type (Cooperative or Competitive).
Apply Bayes’ model to this data to justify whether the caf´e should stock a
new Competitive Strategy game.
[7 marks]
(e) A larger caf´e chain plans to apply the same method to determine which
games to stock. Consider the following two factors separately. For
each, state how the original model will be affected and suggest which
modification could be made.
i. They stock a much larger selection of game types.
[2 marks]
ii. They wish to include price as a feature.
[2 marks]
(f) Bootstrap aggregation (bagging) is a popular ensemble algorithm for
machine learning.
i. Explain what bootstrap sampling is.
[1 mark]
ii. State how results are aggregated for both classification and
regression tasks.
[2 marks]
Page 3 of 4
